Hello and welcome to another edition of Washington Spotlight.
The important political question this week is, can the Republicans win the presidency?
I'm here to discuss it, our Senator Esteskeet, the governor of Tennessee, a Democrat, Senator
Richard Nixon of California, a Republican.
For 20 years, five successive terms the Democrats have been in power in Washington.
So for the Republicans, this becomes a crucial campaign with perhaps the two party system
as we have known it at stake.
As we see, as we move into this hot campaign, foreign policy is likely to become the vital
issue.
Here to do this political argument for Washington Spotlight, our Senator Esteskeet
over, who has won more Democratic delegates than any other Democratic candidate, and Senator
Richard Nixon of California, one of the dynamic younger leaders of the Republican Party.
But before we hear this political argument, here is a message of special interest.
Now we'll hear from the first of our two special guests, Senator Keith Oliver.
Senator Keith, Oliver, you have approximately a minute to state your point of view.
How do not think that the American people are going to entrust the Republican Party with
the control of the country for the next four years?
For the reason that while there are some progressives in some international-minded people in the
Republican Party, still the dominant part of our Republican Party unfortunately is the
same old reactionary group that fought all of the social and economic gains such as housing,
social security, laws for the benefit of the working men and women, the farmer, and
many other progressive measures that we have made during the past 20 years.
Also we tried the Republican Party one time on the issue of war or peace, and they let
us down the road of isolationism.
The same group would be in power again if we should have a change in administration.
And I think the American people want to have a party on a program such as we, if the
Democratic Party, have that will give us an opportunity of having something better than
wars ever-generation.
These Republicans being divided as they are cannot be trusted to do that.
Thank you, Senator Keapoffer, and now Senator Nixon, you have the same thought.
Well, it is because we have had wars ever-generation that I believe that the American people will
elect a Republican administration this November.
I believe that there are in the Democratic Party those who feel that they could give the
new leadership that the nation wants and needs.
People like Senator Keapoffer.
But I am also convinced that Senator Keapoffer and others who would like to give that new
leadership are not going to be able to give it because they will be tied to the policies
of the Democratic machine.
And over the past seven years, we have found that the Democratic Party through its administration
has failed to meet the great issue of our time, the survival of the nation.
In that period, we have lost 600 million people to the communists without the Russians
losing a single soldier in combat.
And because America needs new leadership, because the Democratic Party can't furnish
that new leadership, and because I believe that the Republican Party can furnish that
leadership, I believe that the American people are going to elect a new administration
this November.
Thank you, Senator Nixon.
Well, hello, Mr. President.
I appreciate it.
Senator Nixon's little personal remark about me and that's very gracious of him.
So typical of his good people in California who have been very good to me in a recent election
that I participated in out there.
But shall we talk about foreign policy a few minutes?
Do you think that will be the issue?
I'd like to ask you.
Yes, I agree.
And I'm perfectly willing to fund out a major issue, but also we have domestic issues,
and so maybe we can discuss them both.
But I would suggest that the domestic issues are pretty closely related to the foreign policy
issues.
And that therefore I'd perfectly willing to make foreign policy the issue of this discussion
today.
Well, I don't blame you because the program of the Republican Party is so dismal on domestic
issues.
I should think that all of you want to get away from it, but let's take a foreign policy.
As I see it, Mr. Charles, we must support and sustain the United Nations.
I think that we have given strength to the United Nations by putting our foot down in
Korea, letting the Communists know that we are not going to go on a series, that they're
not going on a series of aggressions.
I think the North Atlantic and Western Europe that we are stronger today, better able to
resist communist aggression than before.
And I think that our point for program is a very important matter in the building for
peace throughout the world.
These other things are more or less holding actions.
But our point for program is a program that will convince, I think, neutral people and
neutral nations that their best opportunities with us.
We have taken the lead in these programs.
Senator Taft, other Republicans have fought them.
We don't know what the Republican Party would do.
I would like to hear Senator Taft cut out.
Especially about Korea.
Yes.
We've had the discussion about the programs.
We've had discussion about the fact that the Republicans have opposed some of the programs,
although Senator Keith offer has admitted, of course, that some Republicans have supported
some of these programs that he feels like he should be about Senator Taft.
That's correct.
But the point you should be made.
That's not a part of it, though.
That's a point that should be made as this.
And I think this is important.
We've got to look at the overall program.
Not one little isolated part of it, the case of point four, the fact that the decision
to go into Korea in the first instance was correct, provided we were prepared to do what
was necessary to carry forth that decision.
And of course, we were not at that time.
But the point that I wish to make is this.
It seems to me that our foreign policy over the past seven years of the Truman administration,
a policy which will be continued, which will be continued under Senator Keith offer if
he becomes president or Mr. Hariman or any other of the Democratic candidates, that
that policy has been tried and found wanting.
Because I come back to this point again and again.
In those seven years, we lost 600 million people to the Communist.
And at the end of six years of that period, we were involved in the Korean War, a war
which has lost us already over 115,000 American casualties.
But now I say regardless of what the policy has been, that that policy isn't good enough.
We need a better one.
And you've already, I think, pointed out that you support the policies of the past.
You haven't indicated that you have any, for example, disagreement with Secretary Atchison,
or others who have made those policies.
I for one believe that we need a new debt.
We need a new leadership, a new leadership, a new policy which will avoid the errors of
the past, retain those parts of the policies in the past that are proved successful and abandon
those that have failed.
I would like to hear your comment on that loss of 600 million people too.
Of course, the whole thing is that we haven't lost Western Europe.
We still do have areas of strength, then the far east.
We have at least laid some headway in the near east.
But if we had followed the Republican policy, as exemplified by the Senate leaders, we wouldn't
have had the not-Atlantic pack.
We wouldn't have had the .4 program.
We probably were instead of losing 600 million people.
We would have lost the arsenal of Western Europe and many other parts of India.
So that we at least have held our own and many parts of the world.
We're building up our strength.
And I think we're building much good will.
UK, go by what we have lost because if the Republicans had been in control, I'm certain
we would have lost a great deal more.
Well, that's a very interesting argument.
I can admit that if I were on the other side, I might say that if the other party had been
in control that the policy would have failed even worse than it had.
But the point that I get back to time and again is that we've had this administration in
power for seven years.
During that seven years, we did lose the 600 million people.
And the fact that some segments of the policy have been successful.
And I agree with you that our policy in Europe to an extent has been successful.
I say that isn't good enough.
We need a policy which will get the United States on the offensive throughout the world,
which will get back some of these 600 million people.
And I don't feel that our present leadership in this state department, which Senator
Keith Orfer would have to continue in power and probably would.
At least as far as their policies are concerned, if he were even selected the presidency, I do
not believe that our present leadership will give the new dynamic leadership which is
needed to reverse this trend which is leading us down the road to disaster.
This child's, if I had my way about it, I'd put more
stress on the point for program also on the economic assistance rather than military assistance.
Because I think those are the ways that we can build for peace.
We have done something in Western Europe.
We have tried to do something in Asia.
We have made the United Nations work.
Now Senator Nixon says that if his party had been in power, that they would have done
something different.
Well, all I hear about his party is that they wouldn't do anything at all.
They would do it less expensively than we have done.
That's about the only program that I've heard the Republican Spring call.
I'd like to ask both of you that on my question.
Would you, Senator Keith Orfer, first end the war in Korea by extending the war further
across the other world into China?
I don't think we want to extend the war in Korea further.
We of course want to bring it to a termination.
I think the matter of the repeat creation of prisoners of war ought to be referred to the
general assembly of the United Nations where it can have a broader basis for discussion
and let them decide it.
But we don't want to extend the war.
I'd like to answer that point.
Senator Keith Orfer has suggested that the problem of repatriation of prisoners be presented
to the United Nations so that they can have a broader basis for discussion and decide
the problem.
I for one, and I state this as my position and I would hope it would be the Republican
position, would never agree to any United Nations decision which would require thousands
of prisoners who have come over to the American lines and to the United Nations lines on
the promise that they would not have to be repatriated if they did not want to do so that
would require them to go back to their death.
We would lose the cause of moral leadership in the world.
And I, frankly, want to make my position clear on that point and I don't think Senator
Keith Orfer would agree with that if he would think that thing through.
Well, I don't want to take the communist point of view about the repatriation of prisoners
making people go back against their will.
But after all, we are in Korea under mandate of the United Nations, the General Assembly.
I think it's the problem of the General Assembly to bring in points of view and try to reach
a settlement of this problem.
But of course, if we follow Senator Ted, in other's point of view, we'd get out of Korea
entirely.
So I'd interrupt you.
Thank you, Senator Keith Orfer, and you, Senator Nixon, for a most interesting discussion.
Now before we hear about next week's guests and our subject, here is a message of interest.
We hope you've enjoyed this edition of Washington Spotlight, and that you'll be with us again
next week.
When our question will be, should the President have the power to seize industry?
And one of our guests will be Senator Wayne Morse, Republican of Oregon.
Until then, this is Mark with Childs, signing off for Washington Spotlight.